This is business breakdowns.
Business breakdowns is a series of
conversations with investors and
operators diving deep into a single
business. For each business, we explore
its history, its business model, its
competitive advantages, and what makes
it tick.
We believe every business has lessons
and secrets that investors and operators
can learn from and we are here to bring
them to you. To find more episodes of
breakdowns, check out join colossus.com.
All opinions expressed by hosts and
podcast guests are solely their own
opinions. Hosts, podcast guests, their
employers, or affiliates may maintain
positions in the securities discussed in
this podcast. This podcast is
forformational purposes only and should
not be relied upon as a basis for
investment decisions.
This is Matt Russell and today we are
breaking down data bricks. My guest is
Allan Tu, portfolio manager and analyst
at WCM Investment Management. And you
may actually remember we broke down data
bricks with a different guest about 3
years ago. But given how much has
changed in this business and the
subsequent capital raises, I was
personally interested in revisiting this
story. And I had a conversation with
Allan about 9 months ago. WCM had
invested in data bricks in December of
2024. And I was curious just to get a
better understanding of what they saw in
the business. And we got into that in
that private conversation and then
really focused on it in this
conversation. So we start with what
exactly data bricks does for its
customers and I think this is the large
private company that might be least
understood by the general public and
perhaps that dates back to the unique
founding team and origin story which
differentiate data bricks and probably
play a role in terms of how it's evolved
from a successful initial product into
the commercial platform that it is
today. Now, this conversation was
recorded on December 10th of 2025, so
all numbers are reflective of what was
publicly available on that date. And
please enjoy my conversation with Alan 2
on Data Bricks.
All right, Alan, I am pumped to have you
here to talk data bricks. It's rare that
we go into the private sphere, but there
are certain companies that are 100%
worth analyzing in this space. Data
Bricks being one of them. And what I
would say differentiates data bricks
versus a stripe or a SpaceX or an open
AAI is that most people understand what
those businesses do. I think data bricks
is a little bit more of a mystery to
most people who are not close to the
business, have not invested in the
business. So if you could just start off
with the simplest explanation you could
give in terms of what data bricks
actually does. Totally. I think part of
the challenge with data bricks is it's
actually they address so many different
use cases and you may hear folks talk
about oh we use data bricks for
recommending movies or uh pricing
strategy or fraud detection and it's
like well these are not necessarily
super related use cases but it sounds
like data bricks is very critical for
all these use cases and then you go a
layer deeper and you ask well what
exactly do they do and you'll hear folks
say, well, they process the data. Which
then for me lends to the question of
what does processing the data mean? For
someone like myself who I do not have a
technical background, even that it can
be hard to gro. And so the example that
resonates for me is that I think we've
all had the experience of getting a data
file, a spreadsheet in Excel and you're
interested in running an analysis based
on that data. And it might be a very
simple analysis. It could be something
as simple as I want to understand the
average price of a bunch of different
items that were sold. But I think we've
all had the experience of well, you get
the data in the spreadsheet, but it's
not perfectly set up. It's not every
column is exactly where the price should
be and perhaps in certain cells, the
prices in a certain currency, in another
cells, maybe it's even the price written
out with text. So, you can't just select
all that data and just say, what's the
average? And so you actually end up
spending the majority of your time,
sometimes 80 to 90% of your time, just
going through the process of unifying
all the data into the same format so
that you can run that very very simple
calculation of what is the average. So
to me that pain point of actually
getting data into a format that allows
you to ask even a simple question is
this idea of data processing. And now in
the case of data bricks, just think of
that at a completely different scale.
You're talking about tons of different
types of data sources. There's this
concept of unstructured versus
structured data. Anything that's rows
and columns that fits in a spreadsheet
is more structured data. But the reality
is most of the data out there is
unstructured. It could be log files that
are big streams of text. It could be
image or video. for folks that are
analyzing websites, it could be
clickstream data. You take that problem
of a lot of different types of data
formats and how do you get them into a
state where you can actually run
analysis against it. That's how I would
think about the core of what data bricks
does. Now, they've since expanded and
they do all kinds of different things,
but that data processing concept is what
underpins the primary pain point. And
then you can tie that back to all these
different use cases. If you think about
an e-commerce company that is trying to
think about how much inventory should
they stock of a particular skew or a
t-shirt, whatever it might be, you could
imagine that there's a lot of different
inputs that might help you make that
decision. It could range from how is
your digital advertising performing with
that particular t-shirt. It could be how
has competitive type of t-shirts been
selling. It could be credit card data.
It could be all kinds of different data.
And if you could get access to that
data, you could potentially put that
into a process of creating a model to
answer that question of how many
t-shirts should we keep in stock?
>> Makes a lot of sense. I think the
painting of the picture of the Excel
model certainly will resonate with
pretty much anyone and you can talk to
people about how simply taking whether
it's unstructured or just not in the
proper format of data ends up being 95%
of the work for what you're doing and
often times I think that can create this
environment where you have the idea of
doing more analysis or running a more
complicated model but just that workload
up front of doing that stops you and
limits ultimately what you're doing. So,
I think that actually does bring it to
life in a really thoughtful way. I want
to go back to the beginning here because
a lot of what you mentioned ties back
into some of the unique origins of data
bricks, but I wanted to just start with
the founding team, the academic, and
there's all these cliches about
academics and them not being commercial,
but here you have this really impressive
story of evolution. So can you bring us
back to the beginning stage of data
bricks who it was what it looked like in
those beginnings and tell a bit of the
story which I think is really really
interesting for this business. I think
it's a very unique part of the data
brick story that to this day the culture
and the DNA of the organization you can
trace a lot of the decisions back to
this founding story. And so it's seven
founders that came out of Berkeley. They
were all working in what's called the
AMP lab at Berkeley around the 2009 time
period. And if you roll back the clock
to that time period, that was actually
the beginning stages of the cloud. And
what Ali, the CEO, and one of the
co-founders would say is that the seven
of them were working in this building
together doing research. And actually in
the floor below was another team that
was putting out some of the very early
research around the data center being
the next computer. Basically the early
concept around cloud computing. And so
you had in one part of the building a
lot of innovation around just cloud
computing at the hardware layer. And
then you had Ali and his colleagues that
were thinking about what are some of the
software opportunities in cloud. They
were so close to the research around the
early ages and unlike with AI today
where there's been a very clear
recognition that AI is going to be a big
deal.
Back then the idea of cloud was still
somewhat controversial.
>> Hard to imagine but yes
>> totally. This group of folks that were
rooted in research gained conviction
around the idea of cloud. So then they
thought about well what are the problems
that we should work on within cloud.
They they actually thought of a few
different ideas but where they ended up
was around this idea that data is going
to be a really big problem. data at
scale and that if you think about all
the different use cases going back to
the beginning of the conversation
there's there's infinite number of
applications around data the other
interesting thing that Ali will say is
that during that time period it was also
when Twitter was becoming big and Airbnb
was becoming big Facebook was still
becoming big it was actually a very
positive time in technology
And so there was a lot of optimism
around entrepreneurism and starting
startups and so that also fed into the
energy of the group. The thought was
well one of the co-founders was actually
the creator of Apache Spark and they
believed that data was going to be an
important thing and so how do we create
a business around that and the other
piece that they thought of was using
open source as another key bet and that
really was very aligned with this idea
of coming from academia and research.
When you roll back the clock there was
really three major bets that they had a
view on. it was cloud was going to be
big, data was going to be big, and open-
source was going to be a good way to go
to business. In hindsight, it turned out
all three of those bets were very good
bets. But the idea that at the time was
less clear, but because of that
environment where there was a lot of
optimism around technology, I think all
of that coalesed together to be the
beginnings of data bricks. On the point
of connecting cloud to data, is it fair
to assume that by transitioning to
cloud, there would actually be more
capacity for data to be stored or to be
used? Like is that connected in the
sense that prior to cloud the data
capabilities might have been
constrained? Yeah, one of the paradigm
shifts of cloud was generally this
concept of scale out architecture which
basically allowed the ability to use
more commodity hardware to be able to
address larger and larger amounts of
both compute and storage and data
processing in this case. So that was an
important underlying trend that enabled
this proliferation and this idea of just
data explosion that I think you're
touching on. When you look at what
Apache Spark was, it was leveraging this
concept of distributed compute and
applying that to data processing. That
was very important. Reason I asked, it's
always interesting to think about second
order impacts or a certain market
enabling another market on the back of
it. Particularly with AI today,
everyone's looking for second order
impacts. Totally.
>> So, it's interesting to hear how they're
connected. And to your point, those
three ideas, those three bets they made
certainly together compounded in many
ways. On that point of the open source,
there are all different ways to approach
open source and we have walled gardens
versus open source and there's the very
famous Apple versus Window example or
Apple versus Microsoft. Can you talk
about the commercialization and that how
that played into things because I know
that was a major stepping stone for the
business in terms of evolving from this
tool that gained usership. Often times
offering things for free is a great way
to get people in. It has to be great. So
it certainly was. But that feels like
such a meaningful point in time for this
business. And I'm curious how you would
describe what happened and how they
really turned this into a great product
and evolved it into a great business.
There are a lot of examples of
successful open source projects and
that's one of the magical things of open
source is that it does enable a level of
adoption of in the consumer world we
talk about capturing magic in a bottle.
In the enterprise world and with
technology, open source is a really good
way of getting just massive amounts of
awareness, mind share, and adoption.
There are a lot of examples of
successful open-source technologies, but
there are actually not very many
examples of successful businesses that
have been built on top of open source.
And a lot has been made about Red Hat
was one of the first companies that
built a business on top of Linux. But
the reality is that it's actually one of
the hardest things to do. You have to
hit two home runs. This is actually one
of the ways that Ali explains it is you
need to hit the first home run, which is
to develop an open source technology
that gets mainstream adoption. But what
a lot of folks don't think about is the
second home run, which is how do you
actually build a business on top of it?
And part of the problem is that the
open- source technology ends up becoming
one of the business's main competitors
because anyone can get the product for
free. Anyone including your customers,
but also including competitors, they can
also leverage that technology and
actually those competitors that have
more distribution, more customer
relationships can actually do a better
job of monetizing that open source
technology. This is where again that
coming from academia I think really
helped inform the strategy for data
bricks which is the benefit of not being
immersed in the commercial market is
that you don't have the pre-existing
notions of what you should or should not
do when it comes to building a business
on top of open source because again the
biggest example before that was Red Hat
which basically provided services and
support for Linux but that was the main
thing But because the data bricks team
wasn't really aware of the precedents,
they thought about things in a very
first principles way. And when you think
about this challenge of how do you
monetize something where there's a free
alternative, it's actually a simple
answer. And the answer is you need to
create a better product that is worth
paying for.
>> Simple answer, maybe not simple
execution.
>> Totally. And part of the reason why it's
not a simple execution is that if you've
built your brand and gotten a lot of
positive feedback for successfully
creating the open source technology, it
can be weird to then say, I'm actually
going to create a competing product and
I'm not going to put all of the bells
and whistles into that open-source
technology. And for a lot of folks, that
creates a lot of tension. You've got a
lot of folks in the community that are
like, "How could you do that?" There's
almost a feeling of betrayal. When
you're successful with open source, it
can almost be a curse because you become
very popular. You're viewed by
technologists as someone who's brought
this great thing into the world and then
all of a sudden you need to be willing
to be a villain. I think a lot of people
have trouble making that jump, but I
think again in the case of data bricks,
they just very much realize that there's
no way we can compete unless we have
differentiation. So creating that
differentiation was just a very
important concept. And so one of the
things they did with data bicks the
company and we can also talk about how
they chose the name data bicks was that
they created a new implementation of
spark that was completely proprietary
that had a lot more performance and
things that enterprises want reliability
scalability etc. And they were just very
unabashed about the fact that if you
want to use this new implementation you
would have to pay for it. Is that
comparable to the free tier of an LLM
versus the pro tier of an LLM today just
in terms of you can feel the difference
and not everybody will have used the
different tiers but I'm trying to grasp
the differentiation to your point needs
to be there. It's very easy to describe
it when you're signing up for a
subscription to a website and it's like
you get three free articles, but then
after that you have access to our
proprietary database for the
subscription cost. What comparison would
you make if there is an analogy for the
difference? I actually think that
analogy is pretty accurate, but there
are nuances to that. As a consumer, we
are used to this construct of there's a
premium version and then we pay for the
premium version. And I think that
decision about what goes into the
premium version is where the nuance is.
Again, going back to enterprise, the
typical traditional wisdom is, oh well,
the average developer that's working out
of their garage, we like that they can
use this technology for free. We really
want to monetize the enterprises. And so
why don't we monetize the enterprise
features things like single sign on and
again governance and security that
actually makes sense. But the reality is
that while it is true that enterprises
will pay for some of those additional
features, how much will they pay for
those additional features? And at the
end of the day, those additional
features are not the core product. So
going back to your example of the LLM,
there are different ways of deciding how
to payw wall a product. I think the
analogy here would be to say in for
certain premium products you can use it
10 times but then the 11th time you have
to pay or in other situations there's
extra features that you have to pay for
and then you have to go to the premium
tier. The closest analogy in the case of
data bricks would be actually the better
model that is smarter and will give you
better answers you do have to pay for.
And so I actually think that comparison
is not a bad one when you think about it
through the lens of that core
performance of the model, not just these
ancillary things that you're paying for.
That differentiation of it's not added
features. The core thing is actually
higher quality is a meaningful
differentiator. And this is something to
your point that every business has to
think through. And I talked to many
people who want to roll out a premium
tier of something and the extra features
are just not that valuable and nobody's
going to pay for it. I did want to touch
on data bricks the meaning what's the
origin story to the name to draw
contrast there are a lot of examples of
companies that have been formed on the
back of a successful open source
technology that have basically named
their companies the technology. So
whether it's Docker was a startup that
was built to commercialize Docker the
technology you can think of MongoDB is
another example in the case of data
bricks the analogous thing to do would
have been to name the company spark the
reality is that there are a lot of
benefits to that because again spark was
a very well appreciated name the brand
and awareness that data bricks the
company would have gotten from coming
out with the name spark would have been
very beneficial actually. But the reason
why they went with data bricks is
because from day one they always felt
like it was going to be more than just
spark data bricks. The way they thought
about it was that there were going to be
many many bricks that you could all be
used to apply around this broader
problem around data. a simple idea, but
underneath the decision to name it data
bricks as opposed to Spark is this
reflection of this long-termism of
thinking about what is actually going to
set us up to become much more over time.
I often think about that when companies
evolve, there's an enterprise value of a
brand that has multiple different
products and you could stick with that
core product or you can evolve above it
and it's a little artsy in terms of the
way I describe it. But I do think
there's something representative of that
and I think it alludes to one of the
points that you made early on which I
think is a good thing to bring in now
which is they've evolved in terms of
what they offer and they have many
different things under the hood now and
I think this coincides with you and
WCM's involvement in the business. So
can you talk a little bit about the
evolution of what data bricks offers to
customers and how it's evolved past that
original state? Data bicks today has
truly reached that point of platform.
There's sometimes an easy framework of
feature product platform within
enterprise software and I think data
bicks has made strides over the years
along that journey. Immediately
following the success of commercializing
spark, what the data bricks team did a
really good job of after that was
recognizing, hey, who are we serving in
the enterprise? It's the data engineer
and data scientists. These are folks
that are after they process the data,
they're actually building machine
learning models to run some of these
predictions and forecasts and
recommendation engines, all those use
cases we talked about. And there's
actually a very complex tool chain to
enable that process that data bricks
very
naturally extended to. And one of the
products that they came out with which
ended up being open source again was
called ML flow. And so this was another
product that just extended the value
proposition along the same use case for
these data engineers and data
scientists. They then came out with
another product called Delta which was a
first step towards data warehouses which
we'll get into the convergence between
data bricks and snowflake but Delta was
another step in the direction of saying
okay a lot of these use cases for
machine learning are for advanced scale
out use cases but they don't necessarily
need to have the same level of
performance that allows for what's
called transactional use cases. That was
actually an important next product as
well.
>> The transactional use cases, does that
have to do with speed?
>> Speed is part of it. There's a concept
in the database world called ACID. It's
an acronym that's ACID. The actual
letters stand for atomicity,
consistency, isolation, and durability,
which is a long way of saying that there
are certain workloads that require a
certain level of guarantees around the
quality and integrity of the data. So
when for a lot of traditional analytical
workloads, for example, just taking it
back to a data scientist that's running
an analysis about how many shirts we
should stock in inventory, it actually
isn't that important that all the data
underneath it is perfectly in sync such
that if one of the data sources is
tweaked by a little bit that totally
throw off the analysis. But there are
other workloads for which you need to
have that guarantee that there are no
inconsistencies in the data that there
isn't one person is changing a piece of
data here which has follow-on effects
there. So that is another segment of the
market when you think about the types of
workloads that databases can address
that was an important extension and
evolution of data bricks. And so they
then came out with a product called
Delta which was a first step towards
addressing these acid requirements. And
one other really interesting thing about
data bricks is that I think one of their
core competencies is marketing. There's
a funny story where when they came out
with Delta in order to explain to folks
what Delta was, they gave out free
t-shirts that said Delta is spark on
acid.
>> That's amazing. So that was another
again extension of data bricks
introducing another product logical
extension of their existing products but
also commercializing it well and
understanding how to market the product
to the broader community. And then from
there to your question there in my view
was a very pivotal moment a couple years
ago when we got involved at WCM and
investing in data bricks which was when
following Delta data bricks started to
show the ability to address traditional
data warehouse workloads which is the
end part of the acid journey that we
discussed. And that was very important
because up until that point you could
largely say that the products that data
bricks had built were all addressing
again that core persona of the data
engineer and the data scientist. But the
types of folks that actually engage with
the data warehouse are more traditional
data analysts. So these are folks that
typically use SQL to run queries against
more structured data versus data
scientists running Python and building
machine learning models against
unstructured data. But because data
bricks had built the foundation and
logically laded their way to the data
warehouse, they were then able to come
out with a SQL product that was more
directly competitive with one of their
peers, public companies, Snowflake. That
was to me an incredible proof point
because they already deserved a lot of
credit for expanding from a single
product to multi-product. But then to
expand further to multi-persona
for lack of a better term was just a
tremendous TAM expansion in its own
right, but also a demonstration that
there's so much that goes on underneath
that to enable the success of a product
like that. And so that was around a
couple years ago. They introduced their
data warehouse product earlier this
year. They announced it's on pace to be
a billion dollars in revenue, which is
just an incredible amount of scale for a
new product. And
that to me really started to demonstrate
this idea of data bricks is successfully
becoming a true platform. Yeah, it's
very interesting to hear and we had
discussions before this conversation
about your involvement in the business
and I'm very interested in latestage
investors and private businesses and
what insights they glean and when you
painted that picture to me of that
evolution into a true platform it
checked out to me just in terms of okay
this was a unique moment they've evolved
on that point about competition at the
highest level if I'm an organization
ation using data bricks. Am I
potentially also using snowflake? Am I
using multiples? Is it not necessarily
winner takes all market? But how does
that work just in terms of how much
dominance there is with customers when
they choose one versus the other? The
reality of the market is that there
tends to be multiple vendors that
enterprises will use. And actually I
think data bricks has contributed
towards a trend of enabling more types
of tools for more types of workloads.
Now data bricks we believe will then be
able to come out with more products to
address those different workloads. But
to answer your question it is very much
the case that you see customers using
both data bricks and snowflake for
example. If you roll back the clock to
that core use case that data bicks
addressed early on around data
processing, it's actually a very classic
situation where an enterprise might use
data bricks first to process the data
and then store that data in a snowflake
data warehouse. Snowflake has started to
try to move upstream to do more data
processing and data bricks has moved
downstream to do more of the data
warehouse. But that can give you a sense
of the way that these tools can live
together within the same company.
>> I will acknowledge this is very easy for
me to say from the cheap seeps, but it
would seem as though moving from the
processing the unstructured world into
the warehousing more structured world
might be a smoother evolution
than vice versa. Because in my mind that
unstructured world is a very
complicated. solution that was being
offered and not that data warehousing is
not but do you think that's a fair
representation and definitely feel free
to push back on that assumption well I
would say that empirically if you look
at the numbers that has played out to be
true with the data warehouse products
scaling to a billion dollars that's
dwarfed the analogous revenues that
snowflake has had around moving to data
engineering but what I would say is that
not being able to run an AB test in
different versions of the world. I would
say that there was a lot of data bricks
execution that led to them having more
success moving towards structured. We
touched on it briefly earlier, but I
thought this was another example of the
company being not just great
technologists, but actually really good,
savvy marketers and folks with a
commercial gut instinct.
when they recognized that they wanted to
move into structured, there was this
concept that unstructured that what
people would call kind of that world
would be data lakes and then structured
would be data warehouses. And so data
bricks actually came up with this
terminology called the lake house
combining the data lake with the data
warehouse. And at the time, you can go
back to some of the news coverage, there
was quite a bit of ridicule about this
idea of lakehouse. It was almost too
clever. This idea, oh, you're going to
combine the two and you've come up with
this name. You fast forward to today and
the lakehouse is a very real defined
category that industry observers have
all coalesed around. So the credit that
data bricks deserves not only for
executing on the product and the
technology to achieve again that we've
talked about with data warehouses but to
then do all the work to educate the
market around why the lakehouse
architecture is the best of all worlds
and why that is the future is an
incredible piece of the story that I
think data bricks probably doesn't get
enough credit for
>> yeah, I think those things are very hard
to measure, but you certainly can
appreciate them sometimes more after the
fact and I certainly just give companies
bonus points when they're having fun
while doing this execution. There's
something that just seems to matter to
me and shows a willingness to enjoy the
aspect of business and competition and
whatnot. There's a certain amount of fun
and I don't know if they would use these
words, but I feel like irreverence in
terms of I think this ties back to the
founding heritage and DNA where it's
look, let's have an opinion about where
the world is going. I think as an
investor, if you go back to the early
bets, they would tell you these are the
three bets that we're making. We're
making a bet that cloud will be big,
data will be big, open source will be a
good way to build a business or at least
build adoption. And here it was. We
think that the lakehouse will be big and
we think that this is where the world
should go. We think that this will help
customers and we are going to bet behind
that. It just makes it very clear that
if you're betting on data bricks, you're
betting on this future state of the
world. And I find that sometimes with
companies that try to have it all. They
say, "Oh, we'll be good here. We'll be
good there." But the reality is that
that detracts from your ability to
execute in a way that data works did
with something like the lakehouse. I
think things like first principles can
get thrown around a lot, but in
preparation for this, watching reading a
lot of things that Ali has done in terms
of interviews, it checks out in terms of
the approach. There's a certain clarity
to the academic world and being born out
of that in terms of understanding
exactly what you're doing, that focus,
having that clarity in terms of why
you're going after things, which I think
can sometimes get drowned out by some of
the other baggage that comes with
academia. But putting that aside,
>> well, I would also say that I guess a
different way of describing this is that
data bricks is helping to lead the
industry to where they think the
industry should go. They identify where
the pain points are and they come up
with a solution that they think makes
sense as opposed to looking at an
existing market and just saying, "Okay,
well, we can do a meto product just for
the sake of expanding our TAM." What I
found is one of the underlying things
that Dbicks does a really good job of is
recognizing true value creation as
opposed to just monetizing and revenue
growth, if that makes sense.
>> Mhm. It's based on customer challenges,
but also having a predictive view in
terms of what's going to happen in the
future. There's a little Steve Jobs
thing about designing for what the
customer doesn't necessarily know what
they need yet in there. Not to draw too
hard on analogies. On the point on
market expansion, TAMs, all of that,
when it comes to both data bricks and
snowflake, both are relatively young
businesses. Were they replacing industry
incumbents? Was it all new market
creation? How would you describe the TAM
that exists relative to what it was
whether it's prior to cloud or even
within the cloud and using some of the
incumbents? Going back to the starting
points of data bricks and snowflake,
snowflake was really the nextgen cloud
version of the data warehouse which was
a market that did exist. In the case of
data bricks, it would have been that
data lake market, but that had never
been as wellestablished
for basically lack of good enough
technology. There had been a lot of
attempts at creating data lake
companies. There was a technology that
predated Spark called Hadoop. And there
were companies that were built on top of
Hadoop like Cloudera that went public at
one point. But the problem there was
just that simplistically the technology
wasn't good enough. So to your question
of TAM, I think the market technically
existed, but there was this period
people forget in the early 2010s when
big data was a very sexy topic and there
was a period where companies had the
recognition or at least the inkling that
data was valuable. There was a whole
period of a number of years where
companies were storing a lot of data,
volumes and volumes of data with this
underlying view that we should be doing
that because big data, why not? But the
reality was that there was in Gardner's
term a very hard trough of
disillusionment where it was okay now
we've stored all this data what are we
going to do with it? And it turns out
it's very difficult to get anything out
of it. And so that's what again going
back to data's core value proposition.
It was really solving that problem and
that was massively TAM expansionary.
>> Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. And
data being the new oil, I think there's
certainly some truth to it, but there's
also this massive challenge of
understanding that this probably has
value, but how do we unlock that value
and do something with it? Exactly.
>> And that being a problem they solved is
quite interesting. I want to get a
little granular just in terms of a use
case so I truly understand what is going
on to the extent that you can answer
this. One of the examples that I saw
presented is I make a credit card
transaction. All of this data is flowing
through the pipes of my credit card
company maybe my bank. Data bricks is
involved in that. And if they see I make
a transaction with a non-traditional
vendor, it's for a very large amount and
it's in a country that I never make
transactions with before. I can get a
fraud alert and from my understanding is
that flows through the datab bricks
pipes to some extent just in terms of
managing all the variables at play that
would cause a fraud detection. In that
example, how does it work with data
bricks actually having the ability to
make the decision on the behalf of the
credit card company to send me that
fraud alert versus them presenting this
alert back to the company and it coming
back to me. It paints an interesting
picture of how ingrained they are in
terms of with their customers. And I
know it's going to differ by use case,
but can you talk a little bit about
that?
>> Sure. For any given credit card company,
the implementation might be different
than another. But to bring your use case
to life, it is very accurate to think
about that core value proposition that
data bricks provides, which is that you
could imagine the amount of data that
goes into making a decision of whether
or not a transaction is worthy of a
fraud alert. There's a tremendous amount
of input that can go into that and
there's probably never enough. You could
always add more data to that analysis.
And that hits on the core thing that
database provides, which is the
pipelines to bring in all that data,
process that data because all the
different types of data are going to be
in different formats and feed that into
a machine learning model that gets
fine-tuned by the data scientists and
tweaked and will constantly be updated
based off of the facts on the ground and
the empirical data of also evaluating
these models. Are they actually accurate
after the fact? and then tweaking those
models again. All of that is core data
bicks value proposition. Now once data
bicks helps a company come to that
decision who is actually sending the
fraud alert. Again, there could be
different architectures here, but
typically companies will build another
application that actually takes the
action and the model output from data
bricks will inform that action is maybe
a classic way to think about the
architecture.
>> That makes sense. The application that
sits a top, it's ultimately informed by
the data bricks models that are
analyzing all those things. And I can
imagine it being rules-based. If a
transaction meets these criteria and it
gets sent up, then that triggers the
fraud alert warning. Where I was going
with that is I'm trying to grasp again
with you'll have companies that are
using multiple different vendors.
Obviously, there's so many different use
cases. The one I just brought up is a
cost savings. We've already talked about
revenue growth and how this can be used.
But in terms of ways to measure
stickiness and ramping with customers,
what does that look like? It just
assumes the more you would use the
model, the more ingrained it would be in
your business, therefore less likely to
churn.
>> Totally. Well, they've disclosed that
their net dollar expansion rates are
greater than 140%. So there is embedded
in that a high level of stickiness and
also embedded growth. So quantitatively
that's the numbers that they've
disclosed. But I think qualitatively the
right way to think about it is that many
of these use cases that we've discussed
are very core to the fundamental product
that businesses are selling. Sometimes
in the world of data analytics, you can
just envision a data scientist or a data
analyst in the back office running an
analysis for the strategy team. That may
or may not feel sticky, but when you
think about these use cases where this
is a content streamer that is suggesting
the next movie you should watch after
you finish a movie that is core to the
product and that can often times be
revenue generating and very mission
critical. So there is that level of
stickiness in terms of once you get
embedded into use cases in production
and then there is also the added layer
of stickiness around just the fact that
there's a concept of data gravity and
once you put in the work to store and
catalog data within a data platform that
becomes very sticky. So there's a lot of
different dimensions with which data
bricks becomes very embedded within a
company. I think the last thing I would
mention is if you've done the work to
process data once, you could potentially
use that for multiple use cases. You can
then again imagine how that becomes very
hard for even if a certain product gets
sunset, but there's another product
that's still leveraging the same data
that's very sticky as well.
>> You've made the illusion and it's the
elephant in every room now of AI. I
guess I'll just start with the very
highest of level of what are the impacts
of AI on a business like data bricks to
the extent that they're beneficiaries to
the extent that there's risks associated
with it. I'll let you wax poetic there.
>> Well, maybe just to start with some
quantitative framing. So data bricks
they're now over 4 billion of ARR. They
have disclosed that about a quarter of
it 1 billion is AI related revenue. And
so AI has already become a very large
part of the business. But I think
beneath that there are different ways to
perhaps slice and dice the impact of AI
on data bricks. And I think for me one
of the things that I've really liked
about data bricks as an investment is
that there are multiple ways to win.
Starting with the core data processing
piece. There's almost a consensus
understanding within enterprises now
that you don't have an AI strategy
without a data strategy. Everyone
recognizes of course the model providers
are doing what they're doing and every
generation of models is getting smarter
and smarter but at the end of the day if
you don't have good clean well cataloged
data the models can only do so much. One
of the ways that AI has really benefited
Data Bricks's business is that it's just
created a tremendous amount of
prioritization and awareness of the
importance of the core product that data
bicks has always provided. In my mind
that is a durable tailwind that
companies will need to do have always
needed to do anyway
that is actually not dependent on
whether we achieve AGI or not or what
does the next open AAI model do. The
reality is that as long as there is a
general belief and understanding that AI
is important, there will be a driver
towards more data engineering and data
processing. That's a general tailwind
for data bicks that I think when you
think about data bricks the business as
an investor it actually paints a picture
of a more durable growth trajectory that
is perhaps not as spiky on the upside
but also not as volatile on the downside
either in the case that sentiment around
AI changes.
>> That makes a lot of sense just in terms
of a heristic at a high level for
thinking about AI within the business.
Yeah, and there's probably a couple
other ways to think about AI's impact on
data bricks. Another way is actually the
fact that there is this huge cohort of
AI native companies including the
largest AI labs that can and do use data
bricks as well for themselves
internally. This is something that
companies in the public market also talk
about is that there's how is AI actually
impacting product and use cases and
there's also the fact that are you part
of the stack that AI native companies
are utilizing and data bricks is very
much so there and then I think the final
part of AI's implication on data bricks'
business is actually product one of the
big picture bets that data bricks is
making going back to this idea that they
have a DNA of having an opinion about
where the world is going and where can
data bricks add the most value. It's
really around the idea that in the
future
AI and LOMS have already proven even if
the models don't get any better than
where they are today, the ability to
automate more work. And when you think
about how big of a TAM that is, it's
probably just as infinite as the TAM
that we talked about initially around
data. So what data bricks is doing is
building products that in the same way
that they came out with ML flow that
helped that whole process of a data
scientist building a machine learning
model. They're creating an entire stack
with products called agent bricks and
lakebase that all together will help
enterprises build their own agentic
applications to automate specific use
cases and actually automate labor and
work which is just tremendous amounts of
ROI.
>> Yeah. And I'll reframe it maybe and you
can tell me how accurate this is versus
inaccurate. Most of what we talk about
with Agentic is often times just
shrinking the context, giving it very
deep context in specific tasks and
therefore the quality of the response is
going to be much stronger. It's not
going to be pulling random places on the
webs. Data Bricks obviously has the most
rich data to use in terms of informing
those models and therefore can partner
with businesses who might want to
develop those agents. Is that
>> exactly? Yeah. So to your point, part of
what the industry is realizing is that
there are techniques that are important
to be leveraged to build effective
agentic applications. For example, rag
retrieval augmented generation. There's
a whole set of processes around enabling
that with vector databases for example,
embeddings. So data bricks has offerings
there. There's also a very important
part of building agentic applications is
around model evaluation. So because of
the very unpredictable nature of the
large language models, it's not quite as
easy to always know exactly is our
application or agent acting the way that
we think it should. And so there's a
whole set of technologies around model
evaluation around being able to actually
quantify
how are these models behaving? Are they
doing what we think that they should be
doing? And data bricks again is building
products around that in the same way
that it's parallel going back to the
machine learning era where you would go
through a similar process around
evaluating models. there you can get a
sense of the fact that while there's a
lot of focus on the core large language
model is if you actually want to build
applications in production there's so
much around and beyond just the model
that is really where I think data bricks
has a strong right to win
>> yes the infamous question of where the
value might occur within the layers of
the AI ecosystem is quite interesting on
the opposite side of the equation
There's been this interesting solid good
relationship with the cloud
infrastructure providers AWS.
Does that change at all with AI? Because
to your earlier point, the data cleanup
and all of that becomes even more
important. I have personally been able
to clean up unstructured data into
structured data much more cleanly with
AI. different story when it comes to me
versus doing this at cloudscale. But
what's your view on where that
relationship where the cloud providers
haven't necessarily moved into this
category? Does that change at all? Is
that a risk? Is that something that you
think about at all?
>> Well, it's funny you mentioned that
cloud providers haven't really moved
into data market because they actually
do have offerings there. And I think
it's actually more a reflection of the
fact that DRIs has done such a good job
of both executing on product but also
just market positioning that you sort of
have that premise. Yeah. But I would say
that for as long as I've followed data
bricks and I first met Ali over 10 years
ago, they had just signed their first
strategic partnership with Microsoft
that was actually data bricks branded
under Azure is Azure data bricks and
that was an incredibly important
partnership to jumpstart data bricks'
modernization. I bring that up because
data bricks from day one, Ali as a
business leader has always been
extremely pragmatic and strategic about
how they operate visav the hyperscalers.
And so what I would say is that what has
always been the case is that there is
co-opetition with the hyperscalers. The
reality is that for customers that are
using data bricks, they will also be
consuming infrastructure, compute and
storage of the hyperscalers. So there is
a benefit for the hyperscaler clouds
when customers are using data bricks on
top of their infrastructure and that
coopetition dynamic I totally expect to
continue in the world of AI but I do
think it's a very important question
because this is a big enough market that
the hyperscalers do care about it and
that it's been another
I believe underappreciated strength of
data bricks which is their ability
to align themselves with the
hyperscalers. There are a lot of
examples of companies that came out with
a great product, had a tremendous amount
of momentum, and then Microsoft decided
that this was too strategic for them to
lose, and so they were going to put all
of their weight behind killing that
product. I think we could all think of
different examples here, and that has
often times been a real challenge for
growth stage software companies. I think
data bricks has just done a very good
job of never positioning themselves in
such a way that the hyperscalers are
100% incented to kill them. There's
enough alignment, there's enough
opportunity for partnership and mutual
growth that that relationship with the
hyperscalers has generally been
relatively synergistic despite the fact
that they do represent very real
competition. I bring it up all the time,
but Amazon with something like FedEx and
UPS where they were relying on them and
then FedEx and UPS couldn't deliver
during the holidays and it was a big
problem to the extent that Amazon built
out a network and then eventually
started to compete with it. But there is
something to the co-opetition being of
high enough quality where it's not
creating a problem. There are other
dynamics that get involved, but that's
very useful framing. I did want to get a
little bit more into just some of the
financial dynamics. You mentioned the 4
million in ARR at this point. How does
it work from a customer perspective? Is
it a simple usage based revenue model?
It is. Yeah. So the way to think about
it is that data bricks charges based on
the actual compute that's being utilized
for any of the workloads that are on
data bricks. And so you can again going
back to a tangible example, your credit
card fraud example, every single time
the customer wants to run an analysis
and everything that happens underneath
that in terms of the pipelines that pull
in the data that incurs compute cost and
that's how data bricks aligns itself
from a modernization perspective. I
would say that we've talked about this
open-source piece, but data bricks has
been really smart beyond just the core
usage based pricing about recognizing
when certain features or products are
strategic, but when they actually have a
right to charge for those products. One
of the examples that Ali has given is
that when you think about your
smartphone, you have one of the features
of the smartphone is your address book.
The reality is the address book is an
incredibly important feature, not just
for phone calling, but a lot expands
from having an address book in your
smartphone. But the reality is that no
handset maker is going to be able to
charge for the address book. And so data
bricks has a lot of different products
that are analogous to the address book
where they are effectively again in many
cases using open source to give it away
for free in order to get adoption but
that are actually still very very
strategic. So one example of that is one
of their big value propositions is
providing a governance layer on top of
all the data so that enterprises have a
single pane of glass for which they can
see all the metadata that they're
processing. And so I guess all this is a
long way to say that while data bricks
does use a usage based pricing based on
compute, the reality is that at least
from my perspective, they're actually
monetizing more than just compute. It's
a way of monetizing a lot more layers of
value that data bricks is providing. And
there's an intertwined nature to all the
different things interacting with one
another which represents value even if
it's not directly correlated to the
compute cost. On your point of when they
realize something has so much value that
it's something that should be charged
for. Does that come from it's burning a
hole in their pocket from the compute
cost of that's how much value it has or
is it more of a qualitative assessment?
I can't speak necessarily for all the
conversations that are had internally
but I think my view is that there are a
lot of different inputs into every
decision around how to monetize what to
make open source and sometimes it's more
of a defensive stance of saying look we
need to make sure that we get adoption
of for example the governance product or
in other cases it might be offensive and
they've actually also done a very good
job of historically recognizing when
they can be disruptive. This might get a
little bit into some of the technical
details, but one of the big things that
data bricks did very effectively to
compete against Snowflake was embracing
open formats where they purposefully
decided not to charge for storage. And
that was something that Snowflake had
historically done. That's another
example of where strategically they're
looking at a way to potentially be
disruptive, not just from a pure a lower
cost perspective, but actually
architecturally to enable customers to
keep their storage, keep their data
wherever they're storing it. Don't force
them to put it into data bricks. you can
actually just run data bricks on top of
where the data already sits as opposed
to historically snowflake was you
actually have to move all that data into
snowflake. So that's another tangential
point around this idea of making
decisions of not only just when to
charge and when not to charge but also
having a view strategically around is
this effective from a defense and
offense perspective. Yeah, competitive
forces that come into play. And I guess
on that point, when it comes to general
pricing trends, aside from what they
charge for, I can understand that it all
gets blended together. But does the
pricing trend tend to correlate to the
cost of compute or would you say that
they're able to raise pricing or are
there pricing wars? I'm just curious.
There's the quality of the product which
is going to make customers make that
decision. Some customers might depend on
or lean in on the price. What drives
pricing changes? I would say that in
this market it is more about total cost
of ownership relative to performance.
What a lot of customers care about is
are we able to run our workloads in a
performant way and again because it's
not apples to apples in a lot of
situations where there is the
infrastructure layer that the
hyperscalers monetize. If a vendor like
data bicks can actually help customers
run their infrastructure more
effectively, that may not show up in
data bicks's pricing, but from a
customer perspective, that factors into
total cost of ownership. And a lot of
that is a technology solution in terms
of better understanding how certain
workloads are behaving. How do you
optimize the underlying infrastructure
to serve those workloads? And so in my
experience, it's getting workloads into
production and really seeing what is
that total cost of ownership to achieve
the goals of any particular use case.
And the reality is that for a lot of
these use cases going back to the fact
that data bricks often times is embedded
in the core products or perhaps the
nature of the decision is extremely
strategic. If you can effectively
provide the end value, the ROI is
typically very clear for customers.
>> It's an interesting business in the
sense that the use case on credit card
fraud. You can actually draw a very
clear ROI in terms of fraud is a major
issue and a cost problem for credit card
providers and being able to draw those
connections. But there's other things
that maybe are more difficult to draw
direct ROI conclusions from. but equally
as valuable. It's very interesting to
hear how different ecosystems and value
chains work when it comes to this type
of business. On the cost side of the
equation, cost of compute, which is
theoretically passed through, you have
your overhead. Are there big buckets of
cost that we didn't touch on that would
be very important? Generally speaking,
Dicks's model is fairly capital. They
don't very much need to get into the GPU
acquisition situation. Yeah. That we're
all very aware of these days.
>> The reality is a lot of core data
processing workloads are CPU based. It
is interesting that when you hear Jensen
at NVIDIA talk about where he sees a lot
of value for GPUs in the future, he does
have a view that more of these workloads
will transition to GPUs. But the reality
today is that data bicks's products are
not comput intensive in the same way
that you would think about a lot of AI
native companies
>> which is amazing to me. It just speaks
to what training would actually require
in terms of compute but given how much
they process that's actually surprising
to me but interesting.
>> It could evolve. One of the things that
data bricks is having success monetizing
is called model serving which is
basically when you go back to some of
the examples we've talked about is this
entire workflow around building the
intelligence
that underpins an application and you
tie that into an LLM and you create
what's called an endpoint that then
exposes that intelligence to an
application. more and more customers are
asking data bricks to actually host that
endpoint basically like an API on behalf
of the customer and in those situations
data bricks will actually have GPU costs
underneath that but again relative to
some of the other examples out there in
terms of the scale of cost it's a very
different order of magnitude not all
GPUs are created equal and all that's a
whole other topic but I interrupted you
I think on the questions of costs. Were
there any other things that you would
bucket in there that we didn't touch on?
>> So, data bricks has run in free cash
flow positive at the scale that they are
at 4 billion plus and ARR. One could
make the argument that free cash flow
positive is a very low bar that perhaps
they should be showing more
profitability but a big chunk of their
cost is just around traditional software
business model. It's investing in
people. It's investing in R&D. It's
really I think of a lot of the scaled
software companies out there one of the
companies that in my view has as strong
a track record of any in terms of
demonstrating ROI against organic
innovation. So from a cost structure
perspective, nothing dramatic to call
out other than the fact that they are
still investing very aggressively behind
R&D and that is a big reason why they've
been able to maintain their pace of
innovation even as they've expanded to
so many new products and areas.
>> I do have to ask it's capital light.
It's free cash flow positive. They've
done a lot of fundraising over the
years. Where does that capital go? So
this is actually a unique dynamic that
is not necessarily specific to data
bricks but is more of a dynamic that I
think more folks are aware of which is
some of these tier one highquality
private assets are just staying private
longer and longer. There's a dynamic
where once you reach a certain level of
scale, there is a certain expectation
for perhaps early investors or often
times more importantly employees to be
able to get liquidity for their options
or RSUs. In the case of a lot of these
companies, including data bricks,
oftentimes the reason why they need to
do these big fundraises is a tax
consideration for the fact that once
you've provided employees
enough opportunities to get liquidity,
the IRS starts treating those RSUs and
options as taxable. So historically
within startups, one of the benefits and
options was that that was deferred tax
compensation. But this is something that
I think the industry has started to
learn is that there's a real tax bill
for basically compensating employees via
equity. And so to answer your question,
the majority of the proceeds from the
fundraisers of data bricks have
effectively been used to offset the
employee stock compensation and the
corresponding tax bill associated with
it.
>> If I'm understanding correctly, it's not
necessarily pure secondary in nature
where the employees are cashing out.
Maybe that is to some extent, but it is
when I get my equity grant, I ultimately
only end up getting 66 of the 100 shares
cuz 34 are used to pay the taxes
associated with that compensation. Is
>> exactly that makes sense. And on the
point of more private companies are
staying private for longer, it's been a
very interesting dynamic. As a former
public markets guy, I can actually
understand some of those challenges. But
what would you say just from your seat?
It's very interesting. You'd sit at the
crux of all of this. Do you think it's a
when, not if about going public or what
would you expect that catalyst to be to
whether it's specific to data bricks or
you can talk about industry as a whole?
>> It's literally a trillion dollar
question now with some of these assets
and the scale that they've gotten to in
terms of both the business and
valuation. I think that for again that
tier one list of privates, there's
increasingly a term that we all know of
the mag 7 in the public markets, but
there's effectively a MAG7 in the
private markets. You've now seen that
there is enough infrastructure in place
from a fundraising perspective both in
terms of capital availability but also
just the process of doing these very
large scale fundraises at late stage
growth that has basically made it pretty
easy for if you're at a certain level of
quality it to stay private. going public
becomes less about the need to access
public markets and more of a
discretionary decision of what are the
pros and cons and for each business
there's going to be different decision
around that. I think in the case of data
bricks, it's fair to say that because
they were private in the 22 cycle in
growth tech, they were able to continue
to play offense in a way that a lot of
their public peers were unable to. It
really helped to accelerate their
business for a bunch of different
reasons you could imagine, but generally
speaking, the ability to continue to
invest both behind sales and R&D was
something that really benefited data
bricks. I can't speak for them, but I
would imagine that that was an
informative experience
where the thinking would be that the
reasons to go public would have to be
sufficiently high to overcome the
benefit that they've already experienced
of staying private.
>> It's a very interesting dynamic and I
think you put it incredibly well there
with a trillion dollar question. So,
it's going to be one that's interesting
to watch. There's a lot of headlines out
there this week about what could happen
next year, but it's almost like a
believe it when you see it type
environment now.
>> Totally.
>> I think we talked a lot about what has
gone right and the opportunity set
ahead. What stands out to you from a
risk perspective? I think we've glossed
on some of those, but when you think
about risks for the business, is there
anything that pops out the most to you?
It is a dynamic enough market where pace
of innovation is still very important
that it can't be taken for granted that
continued R&D execution sustains. We've
seen examples in this space of companies
that have perhaps taken their eye off of
the ball. They've been slow to ship
certain products and how that can really
show up in the numbers. So I think first
and foremost it's easy to say execution
but I do think in the case of data
bricks that continued execution at scale
is important because they are doing so
many different things how they execute
around the newer AI products is going to
be important over time maybe not even
necessarily over the next 2 to 3 years
because again of that dynamic that we
talked about earlier where the core data
processing tailwinds are so strong but I
do think for the ambitions that data
bricks has it will be important to
execute on some of the AI products in
the same way that they executed on the
lakehouse. We are in a very similar
dynamic right now where there's a
question of category creation. What
exactly does an agentic application
product portfolio look like and what do
you even call that and how does the
industry coales around that set of tools
and products I think is not just a
question of product execution but again
that marketing and commercialization DNA
in the case of data bricks time and time
again what I've seen is that the way
that they make decisions has been with a
very long-term mentality in mind. Go
back to the decision around how they
named the company. There are always
these trade-offs where if you have a
shorter time horizon in mind, you might
make a certain decision. You might not
open source something. You might be
tempted to monetize whatever feature you
just came out with. I think the ability
for data bricks to continue to maintain
that DNA is going to be really important
because especially as we enter AI every
single time you make more of a
short-term oriented decision that
inevitably opens you up to some sort of
vulnerability down the road. And so I
think it'll be really important from a
cultural perspective, which is something
that we spend a lot of time focusing on,
that they maintain
that core culture of being long-term,
but also again that founding academia
based DNA of thinking first principles.
It's easier said than done to just say,
"Oh, keep doing that." For us, that's an
important thing to stay on top of. Yeah,
it might tailor back to your original
answer on the staying private versus
public. Having that long-term mentality
is a little bit easier to do in the
private markets, I think, than the
public markets, which is notable and at
such an interesting point in time with
AI. It's all very interesting. We close
these conversations out with lessons and
I think you might have tapped into some
at the end of your answer there, but
what would you say are lessons that you
can take away from data bricks? And in
the spirit of whether it's pattern
recognition or anything else, what
lessons can you take away from data
bricks and investing in that business?
>> Honestly, it would be just reiterating
the last point around the long-termism.
I think that's something that a lot of
investors and founders talk about, but I
think in the case of data bricks, it's
being able to actually point to so many
specific examples where certain
decisions are made where there is that
clear trade-off. There are certain times
when people talk about being long-term
where there it isn't clear what the
trade-off is. And I find that the way
that the data bicks team is able to talk
about the bets that they're making going
all the way back to that original
founding view of those three bets of
where the world is going and operating
in accordance with the level of
consistency is something that really
stands out about data bricks. We talked
about how there were ways that they
could have monetized sooner. Even going
back to the cloud example where it
wasn't entirely clear that the industry
was all in on cloud, but they were so
convicted that cloud was a real thing
that they never came out with an on-prem
version of their product. And you can
imagine again that there were a lot of
examples where they could have that
ended up leading to less monetization in
the near term than they might have
otherwise had. But they had this very
clear view of where the world was going.
And so if you just go back through the
number of examples we've touched on, you
can just point to a lot of examples of
maintaining that long- termism and
recognizing why certain decisions are
made. I found that following data
bricks, that's been something that I've
started looking for in other companies.
>> I think that's a very interesting point
on the long-termism, but understanding
what the actual tradeoff is. It's so
easy to gloss over that second point. So
very interesting. This has been a
pleasure, Alan. Thank you for educating
me on something that I only knew a very
surface level amount of material on. So
it's been a pleasure.
>> No, this has been great. Thank you.
>> To find more episodes of breakdowns
ranging from Costco to Visa to Madna or
to sign up for our weekly summary, check
out join colossus.com. That's
jolsus.com.
This episode is produced in
collaboration with WCM Investment
Management. This discussion reflects WCM
views as of the recording date, December
11th, 2025, and should not be considered
current investment advice or a
recommendation to invest in databicks or
any other security. WCM has a financial
interest in data bicks, which creates an
inherent bias in this discussion. For
additional disclosures, visit
wcminvest.com.